All right.
We're going to talk about custom hooks,
because you just hadn't had enough hooks yet.
You've got to make your own now.
One thing that's kind of cool about hooks is they're composable.
So let's say you had, well, let's just
talk about the exact example that we wanted to build.
Here at the bottom of my Padre Gino's page,
I want to have a pizza of the day, right?
It's going to be the same pizza every single day.
Sorry, it's going to be the same pizza every day.
It's going to be the same pizza throughout a day,
and then it's going to change the next day, right?
I could write a component that goes in,
requests the pizza of the day, renders that correctly,
blah, blah, blah.
But let's say I use the pizza of the day
in that particular piece of information seven places
in my app.
We really want people to buy this pizza of the day.
We can write a custom hook that goes and just encapsulates
all that logic into one thing.
So rather than saying use state, use effect,
and all these different things kind of intertwined,
we create this one hook that says use pizza of the day,
and then it encapsulates all of the logic for you, right?
So it becomes this reusable, composable hook.
That's what we're going to try and build now.
So let's first make our pizza of the day component
that's going to display the information
from pizza of the day.
So create a new component here.
We're going to call it pizza of the day.jsx.
Import use pizza of, I guess we'll write that here
in just a second, but go ahead and write it
if you want to.
Use pizza of the day from dot slash use pizza of the day.
We're going to do that same internationalization thing
that we did earlier.
It's new dot number format, yen dash us,
because we're going to be formatting another price here,
style currency.
It's so nice that we don't have to get a library for this
that it's just built into the browser.
Okay, cool.
And then we're just going to write
kind of a dumb component here.
Const pizza of the day equals an arrow function.
And then down here, just make sure you export default
pizza of the day.
Okay.
Const pizza of the day.
How many times can I say that in one course?
The answer is probably at least a couple of times more.
Equals use pizza of the day.
Okay.
And again, the nice thing is like,
I haven't written this yet, but now that I've done this,
I kind of get to approach the rest of the app
as like just as if it was written, right?
Which is pretty cool.
Okay.
If there's no pizza of the day,
then return some very fancy loading state,
which I'm just going to put in a div.
Loading.
And then we're just going to write this component here.
Pizza of the day.
We're going to put pizza of the day.
Another div.
Pizza of the day info.
So we're going to make that an H3.
That's going to have pizza of the day dot name.
P, we're going to have pizza of the day dot description.
And then we're going to have pizza of the day dot description.
Okay.
And we're going to have pizza of the day price.
And here we're just going to use,
we're going to say from, right?
Meaning that it starts at this price.
And we're going to say international dot format.
It's going to be the pizza of the day dot sizes dot S
because the smallest size
is always going to be the least expensive, right?
Div, okay.
And then we just want an image of that pizza of the day.
Okay, class name equals pizza of the day image.
Source equals pizza of the day dot image.
And alt equals pizza of the day dot name.
And that should be good.
Now we just got to go write this,
but this will display whatever pizza of the day
that we get back from the API.
Beyond that, nothing too interesting here
in terms of components.
We've written a bunch of this stuff before,
but let's go write our custom hook now.
So inside of your source directory,
we're going to create a file called use pizza of the day
dot JS, you can call it dot JSX.
I don't really care.
There's going to be no direct HTML or JSX rendered.
So in theory, you could call it dot JS.
I'm lazy and I just call everything dot JSX
because later it might have it.
I don't know.
It's one of those things, again,
like you can make a point for it either way.
Either way, I'm just going to roll my eyes
and say I don't care and do whatever you want.
And export const use pizza of the day.
So the nice thing is like to make a custom hook,
it's just a function that calls other hooks.
There's no wrapper for it.
There's no additional function that you need for it.
It really is just a function that calls other functions
and that's it.
That's the entire concept behind a custom hook.
Okay.
And we're just going to encapsulate use state
and use effect.
Like it's just going to be a combination
of those two things,
it's going to be encapsulated in just like one other hook.
Pizza of the day and set pizza of the day.
We're going to have this start out as null
or undefined or something like that.
Again, I would be fine with you putting undefined here,
void zero, whatever you want to put there.
My notes have null, so I'm going to put that in there.
Use effect and then here we're just going to write
our Ajax request.
And I'll just going to put my async function in here.
It doesn't really matter where you put it
as long as it's in the function body.
Fetch pizza of the day.
Okay, const response equals await fetch slash API slash
pizza of the day.
Man, I would have called this like POTD
if I realized how many times I'm going to get sick
of writing pizza of the day.
Holy hell.
Await response dot json.
Okay, and then set pizza of the day data
and then fetch that.
How many times do we want this to run?
Just once.
Just once?
What did we put there?
Empty array.
You got it.
In theory, if you're doing like pizza drops
and people were really pumped about it,
you'd want it to like change at midnight
or something like that,
but I imagine people are not that hyped about your pizzas.
I don't know.
I've waited in long lines for pizza in Seattle,
so people do like their pizza.
So again, this is a custom hook.
This is a concept that people kind of associate with React,
but it's just a function that calls other hooks, right?
And this is like my pet peeve
when it comes to like libraries
and people like to associate these like high mighty concepts
and give them like fancy computer science names.
When I realized like, it's just a function,
just start calling it a function, right?
Because it makes things seem more unapproachable
than they actually are, right?
Nothing in here is new to you, right?
But you probably heard the ideas like, oh, custom hooks.
This is going to be like some amount of formality
and I need my monocle and testing harness, right?
No, it's just a function.
That's it, right?
And now pizza of the day works.
Because like, just mentally model this with me, right?
You have this pizza of the day function
that you're calling, use this, right?
Inside of this, this is gonna call two hooks.
Now the thing that I told you before is like,
don't put them in if statements,
don't put them in for loops or while loops
or anything like that.
But what is this actually doing, right?
Inside of it, it's just calling this hook,
then it's calling this hook,
and it's calling them in the same order no matter what,
right?
It's just in another file, which is okay.
And that makes it a custom hook.
Makes it a function, okay.
So now we have a pizza of the day component.
Let's go put that in app.jsx
because we wanna show that to everyone
all of the time we are pushing pizza.
Again, this is Intro to Capitalism with Brian.
By the end of this, you're all gonna be pizza barons.
All right, pizza of the day there.
Under order, I think is where I put it.
Yep.
Pizza of the day, there we go.
So is my dev server still running?
Make sure your dev server is still running.
Look down here, and you have pizza of the day.
Pretty cool, right?
And this actually does change,
so tomorrow it'll be something different.